
--- PAGE 1 ---
One day the m O nkeys started f O ll O wing y O u. They’re not your pets or your 
companions—they’re wild animals that decided to tag along, hoping to steal 
a bite or a trinket. For reasons unknown they’ve found a strange liking to you, 
almost to the point of affection. They do care for you, but won’t ever protect you. 
In other words: the monkeys won’t fight for you, but they will mourn you.
No matter what you do to try to scare or lure them away, they always return. 
They don’t listen to commands, nor do as you say. They are an absolute nuisance, 
especially in crowded settlements and situations befitting of tact and grace. 
Monkey demeanor (2d6)
Roll daily
2 Aggressive
3 Annoyed
4 Teasing
5 LOUD AS FUCK
6 Curious
7 Lazy
8 Sick 
9 Playful
10 Clingy
11 Thieving
12 Gone 
You started with d4 monkeys and don’t know what to do with them. Here you go:
1  they steal a random item from a PC. (d4)  
1 They play with and won’t return it.  
2 They begrudgingly give it back.  
3 It’s broken (but can be repaired).  
4 It’s utterly, almost magically, gone.  
 Even they don’t know where it went. 
2  the monkeys hunted for food. (d4)  
1 Blood and bones litter the camp.  
2 A half-eaten critter is discarded on  
 a random PC’s gear (a ration’s worth)  
3 Eggshells aplenty. A monstrous bird  
 seeking parental revenge soon appears. 
4 The monkeys must’ve dragged an entire  
 anthill here. There are ants everywhere. 
 Literally everywhere. 
3  the monkeys played, fought and screamed. 
Every resting PC rolls d6. On 1–2, they 
gain no benefit at all from resting. 
4  the monkeys actually slept, nice and 
quietly. Sometimes miracles do happen. 
You camp. During the night, (d4)
1 Filthy, scruffy and sharp-toothed.
Monkey appearence (d1)
1  nowhere to be found. Might return. 
Roll again in d8 rounds.
2  present but distracted. The monkeys 
ignore whatever the PCs are up to.
3  clingy. Won’t let go of the PC.
4  aggressive. Destroying everything 
and everyone with murderous glee.
5  curious. Pokes and prods. Grabs and 
runs off with random stuff.
6  playful. Throws things, runs around 
shrieking, might attack at random.
7  tired. Snoring in a corner, picking 
lice and making chill monkey sounds.
8  attentive and willing to fully obey 
a single command (from literally 
anyone or anything that speaks).
In a fight, they are (d8)
Roll at the start of combat